#summary Technical papers describing various aspects of Tesseract.

= Copyright Notice =

Material posted here is copyrighted and may not be sold or distributed without permission of the respective copyright holder.

= Reading the Papers =

The links below take you to PDF download.

= IEEE Copyright Materials =

The following materials appeared in IEEE publications, and each carries an IEEE copyright designation. Papers may not be sold or distributed further without written permission of the IEEE.

[http://tesseract-ocr.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/doc/tesseracticdar2007.pdf An Overview of the Tesseract OCR Engine]

[http://tesseract-ocr.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/doc/PageLayoutAnalysisICDAR2.pdf Hybrid Page Layout Analysis via Tab-Stop Detection]


= ACM Copyright Materials =

[http://tesseract-ocr.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/doc/MOCRadaptingtesseract2.pdf Adapting the Tesseract Open Source OCR Engine for Multilingual OCR]

©ACM, 2009. This is the authors’ version of the work. It is posted here by permission of ACM for your personal use. Not for redistribution. The definitive version was published in Proceedings of the International Workshop on Multilingual OCR 2009, Barcelona,
Spain July 25, 2009. http://doi.acm.org/10/1145/1577802.1577804.

= Manual Pages =

There are manual pages for tesseract tools available in svn:
  * [http://tesseract-ocr.googlecode.com/svn-history/r719/trunk/doc/ambiguous_words.1.html ambiguous_words]
  * [http://tesseract-ocr.googlecode.com/svn-history/r719/trunk/doc/cntraining.1.html cntraining]
  * [http://tesseract-ocr.googlecode.com/svn-history/r719/trunk/doc/combine_tessdata.1.html combine_tessdata]
  * [http://tesseract-ocr.googlecode.com/svn-history/r719/trunk/doc/dawg2wordlist.1.html dawg2wordlist]
  * [http://tesseract-ocr.googlecode.com/svn-history/r719/trunk/doc/mftraining.1.html mftraining]
  * [http://tesseract-ocr.googlecode.com/svn-history/r719/trunk/doc/shapeclustering.1.html shapeclustering]
  * [http://tesseract-ocr.googlecode.com/svn-history/r719/trunk/doc/tesseract.1.html tesseract]
  * [http://tesseract-ocr.googlecode.com/svn-history/r719/trunk/doc/unicharset_extractor.1.html unicharset_extractor]
  * [http://tesseract-ocr.googlecode.com/svn-history/r719/trunk/doc/wordlist2dawg.1.html wordlist2dawg]

plus description of [http://tesseract-ocr.googlecode.com/svn-history/r719/trunk/doc/unicharambigs.5.html unicharambigs] and [http://tesseract-ocr.googlecode.com/svn-history/r719/trunk/doc/unicharset.5.html unicharset] files

= Other = 

  * [http://research.google.com/pubs/author4479.html Ray Smith Publications]
  * [http://ethos.bl.uk/OrderDetails.do?uin=uk.bl.ethos.380162 The extraction and recognition of text from multimedia document images] by Smith, R.W. (Ph.D. thesis), 1987
  * [http://eutypon.gr/eutypon/pdf/e2012-29/e29-a01.pdf Training Tesseract for Ancient Greek OCR] by Nick White
  * [http://research.ijcaonline.org/volume39/number6/pxc3877076.pdf Shirorekha Chopping Integrated Tesseract OCR Engine for Enhanced Hindi Language Recognition] by Nitin Mishra, C. Patvardhan, C. Vasantha Lakshmi, Sarika Singh
  * [http://lib.psnc.pl/dlibra/docmetadata?id=358&from=publication&showContent=true Report on the comparison of Tesseract and ABBYY FineReader OCR engines] by Heliński, Kmieciak, and Parkoła
  * [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QQnIQtvdAC_8n92-LhwPcjtAUFwBlzE8EWnKAxlgVf0/edit The hOCR Embedded OCR Workflow and Output Format] (hOCR specification)
  * [https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B7l10Bj_LprhbUlIUFlCdGtDYkE/edit?usp=sharing Slides from Tutorial on Tesseract presented at DAS2014]