#summary Release Notes.

= Introduction =

This page keeps the most up-to-date release notes.

= Tesseract release notes Sep 30 2010 - V3.00 =
  * Preparations for thread safety:
     * Changed TessBaseAPI methods to be non-static
     * Created a class hierarchy for the directories to hold instance data,
       and began moving code into the classes.
     * Moved thresholding code to a separate class.
  * Added major new page layout analysis module.
  * Added HOCR output.
  * Added Leptonica as main image I/O and handling. Currently optional,
    but in future releases linking with Leptonica will be mandatory.
  * Ambiguity table rewritten to allow definite replacements in place
    of fix_quotes.
  * Added TessdataManager to combine data files into a single file.
  * Some dead code deleted.
  * VC++6 no longer supported. It can't cope with the use of templates.
  * Many more languages added. 
  * Doxygenation of most of the function header comments.

= Tesseract release notes June 30 2009 - V2.04 =
   * Integrated patches for portability and to remove some of the "access" macros.
   * Removed dependence on lua from the viewer making it a *lot* faster. Also the viewer now compiles and works (on Linux.) Also works on windows via a pre-built ScrollView.jar.
   * Fixed the following issues: 1, 63, 67, 71, 76, 79, 81, 82, 84, 106, 108, 111, 112, 128, 129, 130, 133, 135, 142, 143, 145, 146, 147, 153, 154, 160, 165, 169, 170, 175, 177, 187, 192, 195, 199, 201, 205, 209.
   * This is the last version to support VC++6!
   * This may also be the last version to compile without leptonica!
   * Windows version now outputs to stderr by default, fixing a lot of the problems with lack of visible meaningful error messages.

= Tesseract release notes April 22 2008 - V2.03 =
2.02 was unrunnable, due to a last-minute "simple" change.
2.03 fixes the problem and also adds an include check for leptonica
to make it more usable.

= Tesseract release notes April 21 2008 - V2.02 =
   * Improvements to clustering, training and classifier.
   * Major internationalization improvements for large-character-set languages, eg Kannada.
   * Removed some compiler warnings.
   * Added multipage tiff support for training and running.
   * Updated graphics output to talk to new java-based viewer.
   * Added ability to save n-best lists.
   * Added leptonica support for more file types.
   * Improved Init/End to make them safe.
   * Reduced memory use of dictionaries.
   * Added some new APIs to TessBaseAPI.
   * Fixed namespace collisions with jpeg library (INT32).
   * Portability fixes for Windows for new code.
   * Updates to autoconf system for new code.

= Tesseract release notes Aug 30, 2007 - V2.01. =
(See also release notes for 2.00 below for usage information)

No major functionality change. Just a bunch of bug fixes.
  * Fixed UTF8 input problems with box file reader.
  * Fixed various infinite loops and crashes in dawg code.
  * Removed include of config_auto.h from host.h.
  * Added automatic wctype encoding to unicharset_extractor.
  * Fixed dawg table too full error.
  * Removed svn files from tarball.
  * Added new functions to tessdll.
  * Increased maximum utf8 string in a classification result to 8.
  * Added new functionality to TessBaseAPI for Ocropus.

No new data files for the original 6 languages. Use the files from v2.00.
There are new data files for German Fraktur (deu-f) and Brazillian Portuguese (por).

*STOP PRESS* There is a minor bug in unicharset_extractor. Since this is only applicable to training, the main tarball is fine unless you need to run training, in which case, overwrite your unicharset_extractor.cpp and unicharset_extractor.exe with the ones in tesseract-2.01.patch1.tar.gz.

= Tesseract release notes Jul 18, 2007 - V2.00. =
(See also release notes for 1.04 below for additional usage information)

First release of the International version.
This version recognizes the following languages:
  * English - eng
  * French  - fra
  * Italian - ita
  * German  - deu
  * Spanish - spa
  * Dutch   - nld
The language codes follow ISO 639-2. The default language is English.
To recognize another language:
{{{
tesseract inputimage outputbase -l langcode
}}}

To train on a new language, see TrainingTesseract.
More languages will be appearing over time.

List of changes in this release:
  * Converted internal character handling to UTF8.
  * Trained with 6 languages.
  * Added unicharset_extractor, wordlist2dawg.
  * Added boxfile creation mode.
  * Added UNLV regression test capability.
  * Fixed problems with copyright and registered symbols.
  * Fixed extern "C" declarations problem.
  * Made some improvements to consistency of accuracy across platforms.
  * Added vc++ express support.



===xx.00 Version Warning===

Tesseract 2.00 has undergone more compatibility testing than any previous version. There have even been fixes to make the accuracy more consistent across platforms. Having said that, there have been many changes to the code, and portability may have been broken, so 64 bit and Mac platforms may not work or even build as well as before.
 

= Tesseract release notes May 15, 2007 - V1.04. =

*Windows users only*

Added a dll interface for windows. Thanks to Glen at Jetsoft for contributing
this. To use the dll, include tessdll.h, import tessdll.lib and put tessdll.dll
somewhere where the system can find it. There is also a small dlltest program
to test the dll. Run with:
{{{
dlltest phototest.tif phototest.txt
}}}
It will output the text from phototest.tif with bounding box information.

*New for Windows*

The distribution now includes tesseract.exe and tessdll.dll
which *might* work out of the box! There are no guarantees as you need
VC++6 versions of mfc and crt (at least) for it to work. (Batteries not
included, and certainly no installshield.)

*Important note for anyone building with make: i.e. anyone except devstudio
users*

This release includes new standardization for the data directory. To enable
Tesseract to find its data files, you must either:
{{{
./configure
make
make install
}}}
to move the data files to the standard place, or:
{{{
export TESSDATA_PREFIX="directory in which your tessdata resides/"
}}}
(or equivalent) in your .profile or whatever or setenv to set the environment
variable. Note that the directory must end in a /

*HAVING tesseract and tessdata IN THE SAME DIRECTORY DOES NOT WORK ANY MORE.*

*All users*

Fixed a bunch of name collisions - mostly with stl.
Made some preliminary changes for unicode compatibility. Includes a new data
file (unicharset) and renaming of the other data files to eng.* to support
different languages.
There are also several other minor bug fixes and portability improvements
for 64 bit, the latest visual studio compiler etc. Thanks to all who have
contributed these fixes.

NOTE: This is likely to be the last English-only release!
Apologies in advance to non-windows users for bloating the distribution with
windows executables. This will probably get fixed in the next release with
the multi-language capability, since that will also bloat the distribution.