=How to build Tesseract with OpenCL=

==Building Tesseract on VS 2010 with OpenCL==

1.	Open the Tesseract Visual Studio 2010 solution file under \\tesseract-ocr\vs2010\tesseract.sln

2.	Select the required build configuration (LIB_DEBUG / LIB_RELEASE / DLL_DEBUG / DLL_RELEASE)

3.	Set up the OpenCL paths in “tesseract” project:
  *a	Right click on “tesseract” project and select Properties
  *b	Header file paths : Go to Configuration Properties -> C/C++ -> General -> Additional Include Directories. Add the directory path where OpenCL header files are located on the given machine.[ eg: On a machine with AMD APP SDK installed, this path will be $(AMDAPPSDKROOT)include.]
  *c	Library file path : Go to Configuration Properties -> Linker -> General -> Additional Library Directories. Add the directory path where OpenCL library file, OpenCL.lib is located on the given machine. [eg: On a machine with AMD APP SDK installed, this path will be  $(AMDAPPSDKROOT)lib\x86.
  *d	Library reference : Go to Configuration Properties -> Linker -> Input -> Additional Dependencies. Add OpenCL.lib to the list of dependent libraries.
  *e	Preprocessor definition : Go to Configuration Properties -> C/C++ -> Preprocessor -> Preprocessor Definitions. Add USE_OPENCL to the list of preprocessor definitions list.

4.	Repeat the same steps as point 3 above to set OpenCL paths for “libtesseract” project

5.	Build and run the solution.

==Building Tesseract on Linux with OpenCL==
  #1 To build on Linux use ./configure --enable-opencl.  
  #2 The OpenCL header and library paths are currently defined by the variables OPENCL_HDR_PATH and OPENCL_LIB in configure.ac. These have to be set to the appropriate paths depending on the OpenCL installation.
